# ISO 27002 - A.7 - Physical controls
## A.7.1
**Physical security perimeters**
Security perimeters shall be defined and used to protect areas that contain information and other associated assets.
## A.7.2
**Physical entry**
Secure areas shall be protected by appropriate entry controls and access points.
## A.7.3
**Securing offices, rooms and facilities**
Physical security for offices, rooms and facilities shall be designed and implemented.
## A.7.4
**Physical security monitoring**
Premises shall be continuously monitored for unauthorized physical access.
## A.7.5
**Protecting against physical and environmental threats**
Protection against physical and environmental threats, such as natural disasters and other intentional or unintentional physical threats to infrastructure shall be designed and implemented.
## A.7.6
**Working in secure areas**
Security measures for working in secure areas shall be designed and implemented.
## A.7.7
**Clear desk and clear screen**
Clear desk rules for papers and removable storage media and clear screen rules for information processing facilities shall be defined and appropriately enforced.
## A.7.8
**Equipment siting and protection**
Equipment shall be sited securely and protected.
## A.7.9
**Security of assets off-premises**
Off-site assets shall be protected.
## A.7.10
**Storage media**
Storage media shall be managed through their life cycle of acquisition, use, transportation and disposal in accordance with the organization’s classification scheme and handling requirements.
## A.7.11
**Supporting utilities**
Information processing facilities shall be protected from power failures and other disruptions caused by failures in supporting utilities.
## A.7.12
**Cabling security**
Cables carrying power, data or supporting information services shall be protected from interception, interference or damage.
## A.7.13
**Equipment maintenance**
Equipment shall be maintained correctly to ensure availability, integrity and confidentiality of information.
## A.7.14
**Secure disposal or re-use of equipment**
Items of equipment containing storage media shall be verified to ensure that any sensitive data and licensed software has been removed or securely overwritten prior to disposal or re-use.
- [AST-09 - Secure Disposal, Destruction or Re-Use of Equipment](../scf/ast-09-securedisposal,destructionorre-useofequipment.md)