# ISO 27002 - A.8 - Technological controls
## A.8.1
**User end point devices**
Information stored on, processed by or accessible via user end point devices shall be protected.
## A.8.2
**Privileged access rights**
The allocation and use of privileged access rights shall be restricted and managed.
## A.8.3
**Information access restriction**
Access to information and other associated assets shall be restricted in accordance with the established topic-specific policy on access control.
## A.8.4
**Access to source code**
Read and write access to source code, development tools and software libraries shall be appropriately managed.
## A.8.5
**Secure authentication**
Secure authentication technologies and procedures shall be implemented based on information access restrictions and the topic-specific policy on access control.
## A.8.6
**Capacity management**
The use of resources shall be monitored and adjusted in line with current and expected capacity requirements.
## A.8.7
**Protection against malware**
Protection against malware shall be implemented and supported by appropriate user awareness.
## A.8.8
**Management of technical vulnerabilities**
Information about technical vulnerabilities of information systems in use shall be obtained, the organization’s exposure to such vulnerabilities shall be evaluated and appropriate measures shall be taken.
## A.8.9
**Configuration management**
Configurations, including security configurations, of hardware, software, services and networks shall be established, documented, implemented, monitored and reviewed.
## A.8.10
**Information deletion**
Information stored in information systems, devices or in any other storage media shall be deleted when no longer required.
## A.8.11
**Data masking**
Data masking shall be used in accordance with the organization’s topic-specific policy on access control and other related topic-specific policies, and business requirements, taking applicable legislation into consideration.
## A.8.12
**Data leakage prevention**
Data leakage prevention measures shall be applied to systems, networks and any other devices that process, store or transmit sensitive information.
## A.8.13
**Information backup**
Backup copies of information, software and systems shall be maintained and regularly tested in accordance with the agreed topic-specific policy on backup.
## A.8.14
**Redundancy of information processing facilities**
Information processing facilities shall be implemented with redundancy sufficient to meet availability requirements.
## A.8.15
**Logging**
Logs that record activities, exceptions, faults and other relevant events shall be produced, stored, protected and analysed.
## A.8.16
**Monitoring activities**
Networks, systems and applications shall be monitored for anomalous behaviour and appropriate actions taken to evaluate potential information security incidents.
## A.8.17
**Clock synchronization**
The clocks of information processing systems used by the organization shall be synchronized to approved time sources.
## A.8.18
**Use of privileged utility programs**
The use of utility programs that can be capable of overriding system and application controls shall be restricted and tightly controlled.
## A.8.19
**Installation of software on operational systems**
Procedures and measures shall be implemented to securely manage software installation on operational systems.
## A.8.20
**Networks security**
Networks and network devices shall be secured, managed and controlled to protect information in systems and applications.
## A.8.21
**Security of network services**
Security mechanisms, service levels and service requirements of network services shall be identified, implemented and monitored.
## A.8.22
**Segregation of networks**
Groups of information services, users and information systems shall be segregated in the organization’s networks.
## A.8.23
**Web filtering**
Access to external websites shall be managed to reduce exposure to malicious content.
## A.8.24
**Use of cryptography**
Rules for the effective use of cryptography, including cryptographic key management, shall be defined and implemented.
## A.8.25
**Secure development life cycle**
Rules for the secure development of software and systems shall be established and applied.
## A.8.26
**Application security requirements**
Information security requirements shall be identified, specified and approved when developing or acquiring applications
## A.8.27
**Secure system architecture and engineering principles**
Principles for engineering secure systems shall be established, documented, maintained and applied to any information system development activities.
## A.8.28
**Secure coding**
Secure coding principles shall be applied to software development.
## A.8.29
**Security testing in development and acceptance**
Security testing processes shall be defined and implemented in the development life cycle.
## A.8.30
**Outsourced development**
The organization shall direct, monitor and review the activities related to outsourced system development.
## A.8.31
**Separation of development, test and production environments**
Development, testing and production environments shall be separated and secured.
## A.8.32
**Change management**
Changes to information processing facilities and information systems shall be subject to change management procedures.
## A.8.33
**Test information**
Test information shall be appropriately selected, protected and managed.
## A.8.34
**Protection of information systems during audit testing**
Audit tests and other assurance activities involving assessment of operational systems shall be planned and agreed between the tester and appropriate management.
- [CPL-04 - Audit Activities](../scf/cpl-04-auditactivities.md)