# NIST 800-53v5 - SC-1 - Policy and Procedures
- Develop, document, and disseminate to \[ Assignment: organization-defined personnel or roles \]:
- Designate an \[ Assignment: official \] to manage the development, documentation, and dissemination of the system and communications protection policy and procedures; and
- Review and update the current system and communications protection:
## Guidance
System and communications protection policy and procedures address the controls in the SC family that are implemented within systems and organizations. The risk management strategy is an important factor in establishing such policies and procedures. Policies and procedures contribute to security and privacy assurance. Therefore, it is important that security and privacy programs collaborate on the development of system and communications protection policy and procedures. Security and privacy program policies and procedures at the organization level are preferable, in general, and may obviate the need for mission- or system-specific policies and procedures. The policy can be included as part of the general security and privacy policy or be represented by multiple policies that reflect the complex nature of organizations. Procedures can be established for security and privacy programs, for mission or business processes, and for systems, if needed. Procedures describe how the policies or controls are implemented and can be directed at the individual or role that is the object of the procedure. Procedures can be documented in system security and privacy plans or in one or more separate documents. Events that may precipitate an update to system and communications protection policy and procedures include assessment or audit findings, security incidents or breaches, or changes in applicable laws, executive orders, directives, regulations, policies, standards, and guidelines. Simply restating controls does not constitute an organizational policy or procedure.
## Mapped SCF controls
- [NET-01 - Network Security Controls (NSC)](../scf/net-01-networksecuritycontrolsnsc.md)
- [SEA-01 - Secure Engineering Principles](../scf/sea-01-secureengineeringprinciples.md)