# A.5 -  Information security policies
## A.5.1
**Policies for information security**

Information security policy and topic-specific policies shall be defined, approved by management, published, communicated to and acknowledged by relevant personnel and relevant interested parties, and reviewed at planned intervals and if significant changes occur.
### Mapped SCF controls
- [GOV-04 - Assigned Cybersecurity & Data Protection Responsibilities](../scf/gov-04-assignedcybersecurity&dataprotectionresponsibilities.md)
## A.5.2
**Information security roles and responsibilities**

Information security roles and responsibilities shall be defined and allocated according to the organization needs.
### Mapped SCF controls
- [GOV-09 - Define Control Objectives](../scf/gov-09-definecontrolobjectives.md)
## A.5.3
**Segregation of duties**

Conflicting duties and conflicting areas of responsibility shall be segregated.
### Mapped SCF controls
- [GOV-01.1 - Steering Committee & Program Oversight](../scf/gov-011-steeringcommittee&programoversight.md)
## A.5.4
**Management responsibilities**

Management shall require all personnel to apply information security in accordance with the established information security policy, topic-specific policies and procedures of the organization.
## A.5.5
** Contact with authorities**

The organization shall establish and maintain contact with relevant authorities.
## A.5.6
** Contact with special interest groups**

The organization shall establish and maintain contact with special interest groups or other specialist security forums and professional associations.
## A.5.7
**Threat intelligence**

Information relating to information security threats shall be collected and analysed to produce threat intelligence.
## A.5.8
**Information security in project management**

Information security shall be integrated into project management.
## A.5.9
**Information security in project management**

An inventory of information and other associated assets, including owners, shall be developed and maintained.
## A.5.10
**Acceptable use of information and other associated assets**

Rules for the acceptable use and procedures for handling information and other associated assets shall be identified, documented and implemented.
## A.5.11
**Acceptable use of information and other associated assets**

Rules for the acceptable use and procedures for handling information and other associated assets shall be identified, documented and implemented.
## A.5.12
**Classification of information**

Information shall be classified according to the information security needs of the organization based on confidentiality, integrity, availability and relevant interested party requirements.
## A.5.13
**Labelling of information**

An appropriate set of procedures for information labelling shall be developed and implemented in accordance with the information classification scheme adopted by the organization.
## A.5.14
**Information transfer**

Information transfer rules, procedures, or agreements shall be in place for all types of transfer facilities within the organization and between the organization and other parties.
## A.5.15
**Access control**

Rules to control physical and logical access to information and other associated assets shall be established and implemented based on business and information security requirements.
## A.5.16
**Identity management**

The full life cycle of identities shall be managed.
## A.5.17
**Authentication information**

Allocation and management of authentication information shall be controlled by a management process, including advising personnel on appropriate handling of authentication information.
## A.5.18
**Access rights**

Access rights to information and other associated assets shall be provisioned, reviewed, modified and removed in accordance with the organization’s topic-specific policy on and rules for access control.
## A.5.19
**Information security in supplier relationships**

Processes and procedures shall be defined and implemented to manage the information security risks associated with the use of supplier’s products or services.
## A.5.20
**Addressing information security within supplier agreements**

Relevant information security requirements shall be established and agreed with each supplier based on the type of supplier relationship.
## A.5.21
**Managing information security in the information and communication technology (ICT) supply chain**

Processes and procedures shall be defined and implemented to manage the information security risks associated with the ICT products and services supply chain.
## A.5.22
**Monitoring, review and change management of supplier services**

The organization shall regularly monitor, review, evaluate and manage change in supplier information security practices and service delivery.
## A.5.23
**Information security for use of cloud services**

Processes for acquisition, use, management and exit from cloud services shall be established in accordance with the organization’s information security requirements.
## A.5.24
**Information security incident management planning and preparation**

The organization shall plan and prepare for managing information security incidents by defining, establishing and communicating information security incident management processes, roles and responsibilities.
## A.5.25
**Assessment and decision on information security events**

The organization shall assess information security events and decide if they are to be categorized as information security incidents.
## A.5.26
**Response to information security incidents**

Information security incidents shall be responded to in accordance with the documented procedures.
## A.5.27
**Learning from information security incidents**

Knowledge gained from information security incidents shall be used to strengthen and improve the information security controls.
## A.5.28
**Collection of evidence**

The organization shall establish and implement procedures for the identification, collection, acquisition and preservation of evidence related to information security events.
## A.5.29
**Information security during disruption**

The organization shall plan how to maintain information security at an appropriate level during disruption.
## A.5.30
**ICT readiness for business continuity**

ICT readiness shall be planned, implemented, maintained and tested based on business continuity objectives and ICT continuity requirements.
## A.5.31
**Legal, statutory, regulatory and contractual requirements**

Legal, statutory, regulatory and contractual requirements relevant to information security and the organization’s approach to meet these requirements shall be identified, documented and kept up to date.
## A.5.32
**Intellectual property rights**

The organization shall implement appropriate procedures to protect intellectual property rights.
## A.5.33
**Protection of records**

Records shall be protected from loss, destruction, falsification, unauthorized access and unauthorized release.
## A.5.34
**Privacy and protection of personal identifiable information (PII)**

The organization shall identify and meet the requirements regarding the preservation of privacy and protection of PII according to applicable laws and regulations and contractual requirements.
## A.5.35
**Independent review of information security**

The organization’s approach to managing information security and its implementation including people, processes and technologies shall be reviewed independently at planned intervals, or when significant changes occur
## A.5.36
**Compliance with policies, rules and standards for information security**

Compliance with the organization’s information security policy, topic-specific policies, rules and standards shall be regularly reviewed.
## A.5.37
**Documented operating procedures**

Operating procedures for information processing facilities shall be documented and made available to personnel who need them.