# A.7 - Physical controls
## A.7.1
**Physical security perimeters**

Security perimeters shall be defined and used to protect areas that contain information and other associated assets.
### Mapped SCF controls
- [PRM-02 - Cybersecurity & Data Privacy Resource Management](../scf/prm-02-cybersecurity&dataprivacyresourcemanagement.md)
## A.7.2
**Physical entry**

Secure areas shall be protected by appropriate entry controls and access points.
### Mapped SCF controls
- [HRS-01 - Human Resources Security Management](../scf/hrs-01-humanresourcessecuritymanagement.md)
## A.7.3
**Securing offices, rooms and facilities**

Physical security for offices, rooms and facilities shall be designed and implemented.
### Mapped SCF controls
- [HRS-03 - Roles & Responsibilities](../scf/hrs-03-roles&responsibilities.md)
## A.7.4
**Physical security monitoring**

Premises shall be continuously monitored for unauthorized physical access.
### Mapped SCF controls
- [SAT-01 - Cybersecurity & Data Privacy-Minded Workforce](../scf/sat-01-cybersecurity&dataprivacy-mindedworkforce.md)
## A.7.5
**Protecting against physical and environmental threats**

Protection against physical and environmental threats, such as natural disasters and other intentional or unintentional physical threats to infrastructure shall be designed and implemented.
### Mapped SCF controls
- [GOV-02 - Publishing Cybersecurity & Data Protection Documentation](../scf/gov-02-publishingcybersecurity&dataprotectiondocumentation.md)
## A.7.6
**Working in secure areas**

Security measures for working in secure areas shall be designed and implemented.
## A.7.7
**Clear desk and clear screen**

Clear desk rules for papers and removable storage media and clear screen rules for information processing facilities shall be defined and appropriately enforced.
## A.7.8
**Equipment siting and protection**

Equipment shall be sited securely and protected.
## A.7.9
**Security of assets off-premises**

Off-site assets shall be protected.
## A.7.10
**Storage media**

Storage media shall be managed through their life cycle of acquisition, use, transportation and disposal in accordance with the organization’s classification scheme and handling requirements.
## A.7.11
**Supporting utilities**

Information processing facilities shall be protected from power failures and other disruptions caused by failures in supporting utilities.
## A.7.12
**Cabling security**

Cables carrying power, data or supporting information services shall be protected from interception, interference or damage.
## A.7.13
**Equipment maintenance**

Equipment shall be maintained correctly to ensure availability, integrity and confidentiality of information.
## A.7.14
**Secure disposal or re-use of equipment**

Items of equipment containing storage media shall be verified to ensure that any sensitive data and licensed software has been removed or securely overwritten prior to disposal or re-use.