# CC4.1 COSO Principle 16: The entity selects, develops, and performs ongoing and/or separate evaluations to ascertain whether the components of internal control are present and functioning
Considers a Mix of Ongoing and Separate Evaluations - Management includes a balance of ongoing and separate evaluations. Considers Rate of Change - Management considers the rate of change in business and business processes when selecting and developing ongoing and separate evaluations. Establishes Baseline Understanding - The design and current state of an internal control system are used to establish a baseline for ongoing and separate evaluations. Uses Knowledgeable Personnel - Evaluators performing ongoing and separate evaluations have sufficient knowledge to understand what is being evaluated. Integrates With Business Processes - Ongoing evaluations are built into the business processes and adjust to changing conditions. Adjusts Scope and Frequency—Management varies the scope and frequency of separate evaluations depending on risk. Objectively Evaluates - Separate evaluations are performed periodically to provide objective feedback. Considers Different Types of Ongoing and Separate Evaluations - Management uses a variety of different types of ongoing and separate evaluations, including penetration testing, independent certification made against established specifications (for example, ISO certifications), and internal audit assessments.
## Mapped SCF controls
- IAO-01 - Information Assurance (IA) Operations
- GOV-05.2 - Key Risk Indicators (KRIs)
- RSK-09 - Supply Chain Risk Management (SCRM) Plan
- CPL-03 - Cybersecurity & Data Protection Assessments
- IAO-03.1 - Plan / Coordinate with Other Organizational Entities
- PRM-04 - Cybersecurity & Data Privacy In Project Management
- CPL-03.2 - Functional Review Of Cybersecurity & Data Protection Controls
- PRM-03 - Allocation of Resources
- IAO-04 - Threat Analysis & Flaw Remediation During Development
- RSK-01 - Risk Management Program
- CPL-04 - Audit Activities
- IAO-02.2 - Specialized Assessments
- IAO-02.1 - Assessor Independence
- SEA-02 - Alignment With Enterprise Architecture
- GOV-05.1 - Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
- IAO-02 - Assessments
- PRM-06 - Business Process Definition
- IAO-06 - Technical Verification
- GOV-05 - Measures of Performance
- PRM-05 - Cybersecurity & Data Privacy Requirements Definition