# ISO 27001 - 10 - Improvement
## 10.1
**Continual improvement**
The organization shall continually improve the suitability, adequacy and effectiveness of the information security management system
## 10.2.a
**Nonconformity and corrective action, part a)**
When a nonconformity occurs, the organization shall: react to the nonconformity, and as applicable: take action to control and correct it; and deal with the consequences.
## 10.2.b
**Nonconformity and corrective action, part b)**
When a nonconformity occurs, the organization shall: evaluate the need for action to eliminate the causes of nonconformity, in order that it does not recur or occur elsewhere, by: reviewing the nonconformity; determining the causes of the nonconformity; and determining if similar nonconformities exist, or could potentially occur.
## 10.2.c
**Nonconformity and corrective action, part c)**
When a nonconformity occurs, the organization shall: evaluate the need for action to eliminate the causes of nonconformity, in order that it does not recur or occur elsewhere, by: implement any action needed.
## 10.2.d
**Nonconformity and corrective action, part d)**
When a nonconformity occurs, the organization shall: review the effectiveness of any corrective action taken.
## 10.2.e
**Nonconformity and corrective action, part e)**
When a nonconformity occurs, the organization shall: make changes to the information security management system, if necessary.
## 10.2.f
**Nonconformity and corrective action, part f)**
Corrective actions shall be appropriate to the effects of the nonconformities encountered. The organization shall retain documented information as evidence of: the nature of the nonconformities and any subsequent actions taken.
## 10.2.g
**Nonconformity and corrective action, part g)**
Corrective actions shall be appropriate to the effects of the nonconformities encountered. The organization shall retain documented information as evidence of: the results of any corrective action.
- [CPL-01.1 - Non-Compliance Oversight](../scf/cpl-011-non-complianceoversight.md)