# ISO 27001 - 4 - Context of the organization
## 4.1
**Understanding the organization and its context**
The organization shall determine external and internal issues that are relevant to its purpose and that affect its ability to achieve the intended outcome(s) of its information security management system.
## 4.2.a
**Understanding the needs and expectations of interested parties, part a)**
The organization shall determine: a) interested parties that are relevant to the information security management system.
## 4.2.b
**Understanding the needs and expectations of interested parties, part b)**
The organization shall determine: b) the relevant requirements of these interested parties. Note: the requirements of interested parties  include legal and regulatory requirements and contractual obligations.
## 4.2.c
**Understanding the needs and expectations of interested parties, part c)**
The organization shall determine: c) which of these requirements will be addressed through the information security managment system
## 4.3.a
**Determining the scope of the information security management system, part a)**
The organization shall determine the boundaries and applicability of the information system management system to establish its scope. When determining this scope, the organization shall consider: the external and internal issues referred to in 4.1 The scope shall be available as documented information.
## 4.3.b
**Determining the scope of the information security management system, part b)**
The organization shall determine the boundaries and applicability of the information system management system to establish its scope. When determining this scope, the organization shall consider: the requirements referred to in 4.2. The scope shall be available as documented information.
## 4.3.c
**Determining the scope of the information security management system, part c)**
The organization shall determine the boundaries and applicability of the information system management system to establish its scope. When determining this scope, the organization shall consider: interfaces and dependencies between activities performed by the organization, and those that are performed by other organizations. The scope shall be available as documented information.
## 4.4
**Information security management system**
The organization shall establish, implement, maintain, and continually improve an information security management system, including the processes needed and thier interactions, in accordance with the requirements of this International Standard.
- [GOV-01.1 - Steering Committee & Program Oversight](../scf/gov-011-steeringcommittee&programoversight.md)