# ISO 27001 - 5 - Leadership
## 5.1.a
**Leadership and Commitment, part a)**
Top management shall demonstrate leadership and commitment with respect to the information security management system by:ensuring the information security policy and the information security objectives are established and compatible with the strategic direction of the organization.
## 5.1.b
**Leadership and commitment, part b)**
Top management shall demonstrate leadership and commitment with respect to the information security management system by: ensuring the integration of the information security management system requirements into the organization's processes.
## 5.1.c
**Leadership and commitment, part c)**
Top management shall demonstrate leadership and commitment with respect to the information security management system by: ensuring that the resources needed for the information security management system are available.
## 5.1.d
**Leadership and commitment, part d)**
Top management shall demonstrate leadership and commitment with respect to the information security management system by: communicating the importance of effective information security management and of conforming to the information security management system requirements.
## 5.1.e
**Leadership and commitment, part e)**
Top management shall demonstrate leadership and commitment with respect to the information security management system by: ensuring that the information security management system achieves its intended outcome(s).
## 5.1.f
**Leadership and commitment, part f)**
Top management shall demonstrate leadership and commitment with respect to the information security management system by: directing and supporting persons to contribute to the effectiveness of the information security management system.
## 5.1.g
**Leadership and commitment, part g)**
Top management shall demonstrate leadership and commitment with respect to the information security management system by: promoting continual improvement.
## 5.1.h
**Leadership and commitment, part h)**
Top management shall demonstrate leadership and commitment with respect to the information security management system by: supporting other relevant management roles to demonstrate their leadership as it applies to their area of responsibility.
## 5.2.a
**Policy, part a)**
Top management shall establish an information security policy that: is appropriate to the purpose of the organization.
## 5.2.b
**Policy, part b)**
Top management shall establish an information security policy that: includes information security objectives (see 6.2) or provides the framework for setting information security objectives.
## 5.2.c
**Policy, part c)**
Top management shall establish an information security policy that: includes a commitment to satisfy applicable requirements related to information security.
## 5.2.d
**Policy, part d)**
Top management shall establish an information security policy that: includes a commitment to continual improvement of the information security management system.
## 5.2.e
**Policy, part e)**
The information security policy shall: be available as documented information.
## 5.2.f
**Policy, part f)**
The information security policy shall: be communicated within the organization.
## 5.2.g
**Policy, part g)**
The information security policy shall: be available to interested parties, as appropriate.
## 5.3.a
**Organizatonal roles, responsibilities, and authorities, part a)**
Top management shall ensure that the responsibilities and authorities for roles relevant to information security are assigned and communicated. Top management shall assign the responsibility and authority for: ensuring that the information security management system conforms to the requirements of this document. Note: Top management can also assign responsibilities and authorities for reporting performance of the information security management system within the organization.
## 5.3.b
**Organizatonal roles, responsibilities, and authorities, part b)**
Top management shall ensure that the responsibilities and authorities for roles relevant to information security are assigned and communicated. Top management shall assign the responsibility and authority for: reporting on the performance of the information security management system to top management. Note: Top management can also assign responsibilities and authorities for reporting performance of the information security management system within the organization.
- [GOV-04 - Assigned Cybersecurity & Data Protection Responsibilities](../scf/gov-04-assignedcybersecurity&dataprotectionresponsibilities.md)